In the next coming lectures I'll be talking about Kubernetes basics.
So, all the previous lectures were just an introduction.
I just showed you how to set up a cluster and how to run a simple application.
Now, we're going to go a little bit deeper into detail how to run different kinds of workloads on Kubernetes.
I am first going to start with an architecture diagram.
I'm going to give you a 10000 foot overview of how the nodes in Kubernetes work.
This is the architectural diagram and it has a lot of information.
So, let's start here with something that you already know.
In green we can see the pods.
So, we have Pod 1, 2, and 3 on Node 1 and Pod 4, 5, and N on Node 2.
These are pods like we started in the introduction, within those Pods you have the containers.
So, we had just one container, just like pod two and five only have one container.
So, the containers here are denoted in red.
You can have multiple containers, if you take a look at Pod 3, that pod has 2 containers
and Pod 1 has 3 containers.
Those containers can communicate easily to each other.
They can just use the port number.
So a localhost and a port number to communicate with each other if you have two small services.
Let's say one is the backend and one is now authentication service.
They can easily communicate with each other. Pods within a cluster can also communicate with children
but that needs to go over the network.
I will show you later on how service discovery works so that pods can easily communicate with each other.
Those containers in those pods are running using Docker.
So, on our nodes we all have Docker installed.
You can also use an alternative container engine.
But, in our examples I'm always using Docker.
On those nodes also have kubelets and a kube-proxy servers running.
So, the kubelets are responsible to launch the pods.
So, it's going to connect to the Master Node to get this information.
The Master Node is not shown on this diagram,
it's only the nodes that are shown here.
The kube-proxy is going to feed its information about what pods are on these nodes to "iptables".
"Iptables" is the firewall in Linux and it can also route traffic.
So, whenever a new pod is launched then kube-proxy is going to change the "iptables" rules to make sure
that the pod is routable within the cluster.
That brings us to the service.
And the easiest way to remember how a service works is just to imagine yourself a load balancer.
So, this can be for instance the ELB, the Elastic Load Balancer AWS.
This Elastic Load Balancer on AWS it's going to be publicly available.
So, clients from the internet can connect to this load balancer and this load balancer is going to forward the
traffic to our Kubernetes cluster.
It's going to have all the nodes listed and the traffic is all going to arrive at "iptables".
"iptables" has then the rules to forward traffic to another node,
for instance, if the pod is running on another node then it needs to go to these destination.
If the pod is on that node, then it will just forward traffic to the pod and
to the specific container in this pod.
You have seen it in the AWS example, we have exposed a node port like a static port.
The communication between the service and the nodes is going over this one port. In AWS's case the ELB
just has one port configured all the nodes listen to that port and "iptables" will route the
traffic that comes from that port to the correct pod. To translate this to our YAML file,
let's have a look how this looks.
So, we have here a container and we have to put the definition.
So, when we started our Kubernetes demo, this specification the spec here refers to a container
and this container refers to this red block within this pod.
The whole green pod is actually the full definition that you see here on the right.
The container is just everything you see on the spec if you would have two containers
you would just have a spec with two containers.